INTRODUCTION
The developing union of people of Europe is the driving force behind the cross-border cooperation as a part of broader territorial cooperation that has been with us for more than 20 years by now.
Let it provide itself the introduction into this joint report of supreme audit institutions of two close countries:
“185 million EU citizens, or 37% of the population, live in border areas.
These are often peripheral, underdeveloped or marginalised areas- sometimes the borders are historical scars.
The main aim of cross-border cooperation is to reduce the effect of borders as administrative, legal and physical barriers, tackle common problems and exploit untapped potential.
The programmes cover a variety of border regions: some work with maritime areas, others with internal EU land borders or borders shared with candidate countries.
Most programmes are bilateral, but some consist of more than two neighbouring countries (e.g. South Baltic programme).
The programmes last for seven years. It should be noted that there is EUR 5.7 billion in total earmarked for all programmes in this period.
“The programme activities include: Repairing and (re)building cross-border roads, cycle paths or bridges; Investing in cross-border waste systems, medical equipment, research centres, anti-flood measures, and so on; Managing jointly natural or tourism sites; Developing common services for the local population; Advising on employment issues; and Creating thematic networks and clusters for innovation.
The funding is granted on condition that organisations from both sides of the border, such as regional authorities, universities and small and medium enterprises, come together to implement projects based on the needs of the border region.
Representatives of cooperating regions, thematic ministries and other local partners meet regularly and decide which projects are going to be supported.
This unique structure is supposed to lead to sustainable collaboration that continues long after the programme ends.
The funding is granted on condition that partners from both sides of the border work together and fulfil at least two of the following conditions: common financing, common staffing, common preparation and common implementation of the project.”
Within the partnership framework, the tasks and responsibility for preparation, implementation, financing and control of project activities are clearly defined and distributed among the respective partners.
The following are main attributes: joint selection of leading partner; joint preparation of project and applications; making of joint agreement of partnership signed by all partners; overtaking of complete responsibility for project implementation by leading partner; total support payments received by leading partner who completes their transfer to respective project partners.
The support can be granted to eligible projects implemented in the regions and voivodeships adjacent to the joint border.
